All right, next one.
Can we raise our own exceptions?
Yes, this is exactly what we're
going to learn in this video.
So without a further ado, let me
take you on to the code part.
And again, some things actually work
better just with the code example.
So I don't want you to bore
in the theory part.
Let's write some code.
Let's create a new file.
This one will be 05.
And, we'll call this one
as custom exceptions.
Py.
The first thing that we're going
to do is let's just say
we have a brew chai method.
All right?
We'll code it on the go.
This is a brew chai, and we
have flavor in this.
All right, no problem so far.
Now we have a particular set
of flavor only that we serve.
Let's have an array of this.
The first one is going to be masala.
Then this time we'll serve
my favorite one, ginger.
And let's just say we have lig as
well, whatever the spelling is.
All right, now we are only
serving this, so we need
to check whether the flavor is
within this array or not.
So we can just go
ahead and check this.
If flavor in.
And we have checked this
and flavor, not in.
So now we are checking if the flavor
is not in any one of them.
Then we want to raise an exception.
So we can use a keyword,
literally raise.
And you can raise an exception.
And whatever you want to call
your exception, it's up to you.
You can call this as a key error,
value error, whatever makes sense.
In this case, it makes sense to call
it as value error because the value
that you have provided doesn't
exist or I don't want to serve it.
I'll just go ahead and work like this
and we'll say unsupported, chai.
That's funny.
But it is literally
unsupported chai flavor.
There we go.
And of course, looks good.
Now, in all the other case, we
simply go ahead and print this.
So we'll just go ahead and print
a formatted string that we are
brewing whatever the flavor
you have given me of the chai.
In all other cases, we are
actually brewing this.
So how we can actually use this?
Let's go ahead and use it.
Brew chai.
And if I go ahead and ask it
for a chai which doesn't
exist, I want to see.
I'm only interested what
happens because I know it.
If I'll provide it masala
chai, this will execute.
It's just a one line of code.
There is no point
of running this one.
So in this case we'll just go
ahead and say Python 3 run 05.
And notice here, this time you are
raising an error, which is good.
Sometimes crashing
the program is also good.
Don't worry too much on that.
But notice here, this time the error
that comes up is in our old syntax.
The colors and everything are nice.
And it says unsoported.
Really badly spelled there.
Unsupported.
Chai.
There we go.
Some of you might be yelling
from the screen, hey, you are
writing this really wrong.
There we go.
So this is better.
Unsupported Chai flavor
with three dots came in.
So this is nice that we were able
to actually raise our own errors.
Can we create our own
custom exceptions also?
That's interesting.
Can we do that?
Yes, actually we can do that.
And let's quickly move on
to the next video to actually create
our own custom exceptions.